---
layout: arxiv
title: 200503 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Weak measurements are universal**  
Ognyan Oreshkov, Todd A. Brun  
Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 110409 (2005)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503017  
<blockquote>
<p>
It is well known that any projective measurement can be decomposed into a sequence of weak measurements, which cause only small changes to the state. Similar constructions for generalized measurements, however, have relied on the use of an ancilla system. We show that any generalized measurement can be decomposed into a sequence of weak measurements without the use of an ancilla, and give an explicit construction for these weak measurements. The measurement procedure has the structure of a random walk along a curve in state space, with the measurement ending when one of the end points is reached. This shows that any measurement can be generated by weak measurements, and hence that weak measurements are universal. This may have important applications to the theory of entanglement.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Optical implementability of the two-dimensional Quantum Walk**  
Eugenio Roldan, J.C. Soriano  
Journal of Modern Optics 52 (2005) 2649-2657  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503069  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose an optical cavity implementation of the two-dimensional coined quantum walk on the line. The implementation makes use of only classical resources, and is tunable in the sense that a large number of different unitary transformations can be implemented by tuning some parameters of the device.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Quantum walks on Cayley graphs**  
O. Lopez Acevedo, T. Gobron  
J. Phys. A: Math. Gen. 39 (2006) 585-599  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503078  
<blockquote>
<p>
We address the problem of the construction of quantum walks on Cayley graphs. Our main motivation is the relationship between quantum algorithms and quantum walks. In particular, we discuss the choice of the dimension of the local Hilbert space and consider various classes of graphs on which the structure of quantum walks may differ. We completely characterise quantum walks on free groups and present partial results on more general cases. Some examples are given, including a family of quantum walks on the hypercube involving a Clifford Algebra.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    One- and two-dimensional quantum walks in arrays of optical traps**  
K. Eckert, J. Mompart, G. Birkl, M. Lewenstein  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503084  
<blockquote>
<p>
We propose a novel implementation of discrete time quantum walks for a neutral atom in an array of optical microtraps or an optical lattice. We analyze a one-dimensional walk in position space, with the coin, the additional qubit degree of freedom that controls the displacement of the quantum walker, implemented as a spatially delocalized qubit, i.e., the coin is also encoded in position space. We analyze the dependence of the quantum walk on temperature and experimental imperfections as shaking in the trap positions. Finally, combining a spatially delocalized qubit and a hyperfine qubit, we also give a scheme to realize a quantum walk on a two-dimensional square lattice with the possibility of implementing different coin operators.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Quantum walks and orbital states of a Weyl particle**  
Makoto Katori, Soichi Fujino, Norio Konno  
Phys.Rev. A72 (2005) 012316  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0503142  
<blockquote>
<p>
The time-evolution equation of a one-dimensional quantum walker is exactly mapped to the three-dimensional Weyl equation for a zero-mass particle with spin 1/2, in which each wave number k of walker's wave function is mapped to a point \vec{q}(k) in the three-dimensional momentum space and \vec{q}(k) makes a planar orbit as k changes its value in [-\pi, \pi). The integration over k providing the real-space wave function for a quantum walker corresponds to considering an orbital state of a Weyl particle, which is defined as a superposition (curvilinear integration) of the energy-momentum eigenstates of a free Weyl equation along the orbit. Konno's novel distribution function of quantum-walker's pseudo-velocities in the long-time limit is fully controlled by the shape of the orbit and how the orbit is embedded in the three-dimensional momentum space. The family of orbital states can be regarded as a geometrical representation of the unitary group U(2) and the present study will propose a new group-theoretical point of view for quantum-walk problems.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

