---
layout: arxiv
title: 200602 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Entangled Markov Chains generated by Symmetric Channels**  
Takayuki Miyadera  
Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics,, Vol. 8, No. 3 (2005) 497-504  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602056  
<blockquote>
<p>
A notion of entangled Markov chain was introduced by Accardi and Fidaleo in the context of quantum random walk. They proved that, in the finite dimensional case, the corresponding states have vanishing entropy density, but they did not prove that they are entangled. In the present note this entropy result is extended to the infinite dimensional case under the assumption of finite speed of hopping. Then the entanglement problem is discussed for spin 1/2, entangled Markov chains generated by a binary symmetric channel with hopping probability $1-q$. The von Neumann entropy of these states, restricted on a sublattice is explicitly calculated and shown to be independent of the size of the sublattice. This is a new, purely quantum, phenomenon. Finally the entanglement property between the sublattices ${\cal A}(\{0,1,...,N\})$ and ${\cal A}(\{N+1\})$ is investigated using the PPT criterium. It turns out that, for $q\neq 0,1,{1/2}$ the states are non separable, thus truly entangled, while for $q=0,1,{1/2}$, they are separable.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Continuous-time quantum walks on ultrametric spaces**  
Norio Konno  
International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol.4, No.6, pp.1023-1035 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602070  
<blockquote>
<p>
We introduce a continuous-time quantum walk on an ultrametric space corresponding to the set of p-adic integers and compute its time-averaged probability distribution. It is shown that localization occurs for any location of the ultrametric space for the walk. This result presents a striking contrast to the classical random walk case. Moreover we clarify a difference between the ultrametric space and other graphs, such as cycle graph, line, hypercube and complete graph, for the localization of the quantum case. Our quantum walk may be useful for a quantum search algorithm on a tree-like hierarchical structure.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Effects of non-local initial conditions in the Quantum Walk on the line**  
G. Abal, R. Donangelo, A. Romanelli, R. Siri  
Physica A Vol 371/1 pp 1-4 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602188  
<blockquote>
<p>
We report an enhancement of the decay rate of the survival probability when non-local initial conditions in position space are considered in the Quantum Walk on the line. It is shown how this interference effect can be understood analytically by using previously derived results. Within a restricted position subspace, the enhanced decay is correlated with a maximum asymptotic entanglement level while the normal decay rate corresponds to initial relative phases associated to a minimum entanglement level.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Continuous-Time Quantum Walks on Trees in Quantum Probability Theory**  
Norio Konno  
Infinite Dimensional Analysis, Quantum Probability and Related Topics, Vol.9, No.2, pp.287-297 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/quant-ph/0602213  
<blockquote>
<p>
A quantum central limit theorem for a continuous-time quantum walk on a homogeneous tree is derived from quantum probability theory. As a consequence, a new type of limit theorems for another continuous-time walk introduced by the walk is presented. The limit density is similar to that given by a continuous-time quantum walk on the one-dimensional lattice.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Coherent exciton transport in dendrimers and continuous-time quantum walks**  
Oliver Muelken, Veronika Bierbaum, Alexander Blumen  
J. Chem. Phys. 124, 124905 (2006)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/cond-mat/0602040  
<blockquote>
<p>
We model coherent exciton transport in dendrimers by continuous-time quantum walks (CTQWs). For dendrimers up to the second generation the coherent transport shows perfect recurrences, when the initial excitation starts at the central node. For larger dendrimers, the recurrence ceases to be perfect, a fact which resembles results for discrete quantum carpets. Moreover, depending on the initial excitation site we find that the coherent transport to certain nodes of the dendrimer has a very low probability. When the initial excitation starts from the central node, the problem can be mapped onto a line which simplifies the computational effort. Furthermore, the long time average of the quantum mechanical transition probabilities between pairs of nodes show characteristic patterns and allow to classify the nodes into clusters with identical limiting probabilities. For the (space) average of the quantum mechanical probability to be still or again at the initial site, we obtain, based on the Cauchy-Schwarz inequality, a simple lower bound which depends only on the eigenvalue spectrum of the Hamiltonian.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

