---
layout: arxiv
title: 200709 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Representing probabilistic data via ontological models**  
Nicholas Harrigan, Terry Rudolph, Scott Aaronson  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1149  
<blockquote>
<p>
Ontological models are attempts to quantitatively describe the results of a probabilistic theory, such as Quantum Mechanics, in a framework exhibiting an explicit realism-based underpinning. Unlike either the well known quasi-probability representations, or the "r-p" vector formalism, these models are contextual and by definition only involve positive probability distributions (and indicator functions). In this article we study how the ontological model formalism can be used to describe arbitrary statistics of a system subjected to a finite set of preparations and measurements. We present three models which can describe any such empirical data and then discuss how to turn an indeterministic model into a deterministic one. This raises the issue of how such models manifest contextuality, and we provide an explicit example to demonstrate this. In the second half of the paper we consider the issue of finding ontological models with as few ontic states as possible.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Quantum phase transition using quantum walks in an optical lattice**  
C. M. Chandrashekar, Raymond Laflamme  
Phys. Rev. A 78, 022314 (2008)  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.1986  
<blockquote>
<p>
We present an approach using quantum walks (QWs) to redistribute ultracold atoms in an optical lattice. Different density profiles of atoms can be obtained by exploiting the controllable properties of QWs, such as the variance and the probability distribution in position space using quantum coin parameters and engineered noise. The QW evolves the density profile of atoms in a superposition of position space resulting in a quadratic speedup of the process of quantum phase transition. We also discuss implementation in presently available setups of ultracold atoms in optical lattices.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Asymptotic entanglement in the discrete-time quantum walk**  
G. Abal, R. Donangelo, H. Fort  
Annals of the 1st Workshop on Quantum Computation and Information, pp. 189-200, UCPel, 9-11 october 2006, Pelotas, RS, Brazil  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3279  
<blockquote>
<p>
The coin-position entanglement generated by the evolution operator of a discrete--time quantum walk converges, in the long time limit, to a well defined value which depends on the initial state. We also discuss the asymptotic bi-partite entanglement generated by several non-separable coin operations for two coherent quantum walkers, for which the entropy of entanglement increases logarithmically.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Equal Superposition Transformations and Quantum Random Walks**  
Preeti Parashar  
http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3406  
<blockquote>
<p>
The largest ensemble of qubits which satisfy the general transformation of equal superposition is obtained by different methods, namely, linearity, no-superluminal signalling and non-increase of entanglement under LOCC. We also consider the associated quantum random walk and show that all unitary balanced coins give the same asymmetric spatial probability distribution. It is further illustrated that unbalanced coins, upon appropriate superposition, lead to new unbiased walks which have no classical analogues.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

