---
layout: arxiv
title: 201602 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Thermalization in many-particle quantum walks**  
Dibwe Pierrot Musumbu, Maria Przybylska, Andrzej J. Maciejewski  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.00305  
<blockquote>
<p>
Many-particles quantum walks of particles obeying Bose statistics moving on graphs of various topologies are introduced. A single coin tossing commands the conditional shift operation over the whole graph. Vertices particle densities, the mean values of the phase space variables, second order spatial correlation and counting statistics are evaluated and simulated. Evidence of an universal dynamics is presented.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Quantum walks public key cryptographic system**  
C. Vlachou, J. Rodrigues, P. Mateus, N. Paunkovi?, A. Souto  
International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 13, No. 6 (2015) 1550050  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.01404  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum Cryptography is a rapidly developing field of research that benefits from the properties of Quantum Mechanics in performing cryptographic tasks. Quantum walks are a powerful model for quantum computation and very promising for quantum information processing. In this paper, we present a quantum public-key cryptographic system based on quantum walks. In particular, in the proposed protocol the public key is given by a quantum state generated by performing a quantum walk. We show that the protocol is secure and analyze the complexity of public-key generation and encryption/decryption procedures.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Reduction of branching graphs supporting continuous time return quantum walks**  
Thomas Cavin, Dmitry Solenov  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.02446  
<blockquote>
<p>
We demonstrate that continuous time quantum walks on several types of branching graphs, including graphs with loops, are identical to quantum walks on simpler linear chain graphs. We also show graph types for which such equivalence does not exist. Several instructive examples are discussed, and a general approach to analyze more complex branching graphs is formulated. It is further illustrated with a return quantum walk solution for a cube graph with adjustable complex hopping amplitudes.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Percolation assisted excitation transport in discrete-time quantum walks**  
Martin Stefanak, Jaroslav Novotny, Igor Jex  
New J. Phys. 18, 023040 (2016)  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.04678  
<blockquote>
<p>
Coherent transport of excitations along chains of coupled quantum systems represents an interesting problem with a number of applications ranging from quantum optics to solar cell technology. A convenient tool for studying such processes are quantum walks. They allow to determine in a quantitative way all the process features. We study the survival probability and the transport efficiency on a simple, highly symmetric graph represented by a ring. The propagation of excitation is modeled by a discrete-time (coined) quantum walk. For a two-state quantum walk, where the excitation (walker) has to leave its actual position to the neighboring sites, the survival probability decays exponentially and the transport efficiency is unity. The decay rate of the survival probability can be estimated using the leading eigenvalue of the evolution operator. However, if the excitation is allowed to stay at its present position, i.e. the propagation is modeled by a lazy quantum walk, then part of the wave-packet can be trapped in the vicinity of the origin and never reaches the sink. In such a case, the survival probability does not vanish and the excitation transport is not efficient. The dependency of the transport efficiency on the initial state is determined. Nevertheless, we show that for some lazy quantum walks dynamical percolations of the ring eliminate the trapping effect and efficient excitation transport can be achieved.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**5.    Recurrent delocalization and quasi-equilibration of photons in coupled circuit QED systems**  
Myung-Joong Hwang, M. S. Kim, Mahn-Soo Choi  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.06145  
<blockquote>
<p>
We explore the photon population dynamics in two coupled circuit QED systems. For a sufficiently weak inter-cavity photon hopping, as the photon-cavity coupling increases, the dynamics undergoes double transitions first from a delocalized to a localized phase and then from the localized to another delocalized phase. The latter delocalized phase is distinguished from the former one; instead of oscillating between the two cavities, the photons rapidly quasi-equilibrate over the two cavities. These intrigues are attributed to an interplay between two qualitatively distinctive nonlinear behaviors of the circuit QED systems in the utrastrong coupling regime, whose distinction has been widely overlooked.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**6.    A quantum random walk of a Bose-Einstein condensate in momentum space**  
Gil Summy, Sandro Wimberger  
Phys. Rev. A 93, 023638 (2016)  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.07612  
<blockquote>
<p>
Each step in a quantum random walk is typically understood to have two basic components; a `coin-toss' which produces a random superposition of two states, and a displacement which moves each component of the superposition by different amounts. Here we suggest the realization of a walk in momentum space with a spinor Bose-Einstein condensate subject to a quantum ratchet realized with a pulsed, off-resonant optical lattice. By an appropriate choice of the lattice detuning, we show how the atomic momentum can be entangled with the internal spin states of the atoms. For the coin-toss, we propose to use a microwave pulse to mix these internal states. We present experimental results showing an optimized quantum ratchet, and through a series of simulations, demonstrate how our proposal gives extraordinary control of the quantum walk. This should allow for the investigation of possible biases, and classical-to-quantum dynamics in the presence of natural and engineered noise.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**7.    Harnessing disordered quantum dynamics for machine learning**  
Keisuke Fujii, Kohei Nakajima  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.08159  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum computer has an amazing potential of fast information processing. However, realisation of a digital quantum computer is still a challenging problem requiring highly accurate controls and key application strategies. Here we propose a novel platform, quantum reservoir computing, to solve these issues successfully by exploiting natural quantum dynamics, which is ubiquitous in laboratories nowadays, for machine learning. In this framework, nonlinear dynamics including classical chaos can be universally emulated in quantum systems. A number of numerical experiments show that quantum systems consisting of at most seven qubits possess computational capabilities comparable to conventional recurrent neural networks of 500 nodes. This discovery opens up a new paradigm for information processing with artificial intelligence powered by quantum physics.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**8.    Quantum Brownian motion in a Landau level**  
Emilio Cobanera, Peter Kristel, Cristiane Morais Smith  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.00694  
<blockquote>
<p>
Motivated by questions about the open-system dynamics of topological quantum matter, we investigated the quantum Brownian motion of an electron in a homogeneous magnetic field. When the Fermi length $l_F=\hbar/(v_Fm_{\text{eff}})$ becomes much longer than the magnetic length $l_B=(\hbar c/eB)^{1/2}$, then the spatial coordinates $X,Y$ of the electron cease to commute, $[X,Y]=il_B^2$. As a consequence, localization of the electron becomes limited by Heisenberg uncertainty, and the linear bath-electron coupling becomes unconventional. Moreover, because the kinetic energy of the electron is quenched by the strong magnetic field, the electron has no energy to give to or take from the bath, and so the usual connection between frictional forces and dissipation no longer holds. These two features make quantum Brownian motion topological, in the regime $l_F\gg l_B$, which is at the verge of current experimental capabilities. We model topological quantum Brownian motion in terms of an unconventional operator Langevin equation derived from first principles, and solve this equation with the aim of characterizing diffusion. While diffusion in the noncommutative plane turns out to be conventional, with the mean displacement squared being proportional to $t^\alpha$ and $\alpha=1$, there is an exotic regime for the proportionality constant in which it is directly proportional to the friction coefficient and inversely proportional to the square of the magnetic field: in this regime, friction helps diffusion and the magnetic field suppresses all fluctuations. We also show that quantum tunneling can be completely suppressed in the noncommutative plane for suitably designed metastable potential wells, a feature that might be worth exploiting for storage and protection of quantum information.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**9.    Superconducting quantum metamaterials as active lasing medium: Effects of disorder**  
Martin Koppenh?fer, Michael Marthaler, Gerd Sch?n  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.01367  
<blockquote>
<p>
A metamaterial formed by superconducting circuits or quantum dots can serve as active lasing medium when coupled to a microwave resonator. For these artificial atoms, in contrast to real atoms, variations in their parameters cannot be avoided. In this paper, we examine the influence of disorder on such a multi-atom lasing setup. We find that the lasing process evolves into a self-organized stationary state that is quite robust against disorder. The reason is that photons created by those atoms which are in or close to resonance with the resonator stimulate the emission also of more detuned atoms. Not only the number of photons grows with the number of atoms, but also the width of the resonance as function of the detuning. Similar properties are found for other types of disorder such as variations in the individual coupling. We present relations how the allowed disorder scales with the number of atoms and confirm it by a numerical analysis. We also provide estimates for the sample-to-sample variations to be expected for setups with moderate numbers of atoms.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**10.    Superconducting circuit simulator of Bose-Hubbard model with a flat band**  
Xiu-Hao Deng, Chen-Yen Lai, Chih-Chun Chien  
Phys. Rev. B 93, 054116 (2016)  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.01559  
<blockquote>
<p>
Recent advance in quantum simulations of interacting photons using superconducting circuits offers opportunities for investigating the Bose-Hubbard model in various geometries with hopping coefficients and self-interactions tuned to both signs. Here we investigate phenomena related to localized states associated with a flat-band supported by the saw-tooth geometry. A localization-delocalization transition emerges in the non-interacting regime as the sign of hopping coefficient is changed. In the presence of interactions, patterns of localized states approach a uniform density distribution for repulsive interactions while interesting localized density patterns can arise in strongly attractive regime. The density patterns indicate the underlying inhomogeneity of the simulator. Two-particle correlations can further distinguish the nature of the localized states in attractive and repulsive interaction regimes. We also survey possible experimental implementations of the simulator.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**11.    Interplay of localisation and competing interaction channels: cascade of quantum phase transitions**  
A.M. Belemuk, N.M. Chtchelkatchev, A.V. Mikheyenkov, Wu-Ming Liu  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.02563  
<blockquote>
<p>
We investigate the interplay of localization, interactions and (pseudo)spin degrees of freedom on quantum states of particles on the lattice. Our results show that breaking the paradigm density-density interaction $U_0\gg$ (pseudo)spin-(pseudo)spin interaction $U_s$ will drive the sequence of quantum phase transitions (QPT), where (pseudo)spin state and particle ordering, in case of several particle species, on the lattice are strongly changed. QPT driven by competing interactions, $|U_s|\sim U_0$, manifest itself in singularities of effective exchange integrals. $|U_s|\sim U_0$ implies a frustration when the interactions standing alone drive the system to different phases. Even at $U_s=0$, there is typically a QPT induced by $U_s$ sign change. Vector cold atoms, Fermions or Bosons, on optical lattices are the state-of-the-art realization of our system where $U_s$ is tunable \textit{in situ}.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**12.    On the classification of topological phases in periodically driven interacting systems**  
Dominic V. Else, Chetan Nayak  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.04804  
<blockquote>
<p>
We consider topological phases in periodically driven (Floquet) systems exhibiting many-body localization, protected by a symmetry $G$. We argue for a general correspondence between such phases and topological phases of undriven systems protected by symmetry $\mathbb{Z} \rtimes G$, where the additional $\mathbb{Z}$ accounts for the discrete time translation symmetry. Thus, for example, the bosonic phases in $d$ spatial dimensions without intrinsic topological order (SPT phases) are classified by the cohomology group $H^{d+1}(\mathbb{Z} \rtimes G, \mathrm{U}(1))$. For unitary symmetries, we interpret the additional resulting Floquet phases in terms of the lower-dimensional SPT phases that are pumped to the boundary during one time step. These results also imply the existence of novel symmetry-enriched topological (SET) orders protected solely by the periodicity of the drive.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**13.    Quantum Walk in Degenerate Spin Environments**  
Johan Carlstr?m, Nikolay Prokof'ev, Boris Svistunov  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.05366  
<blockquote>
<p>
We study the propagation of a hole in degenerate (paramagnetic) spin environments. This canonical problem has important connections to a number of physical systems, and is perfectly suited for experimental realization with ultra-cold atoms in an optical lattice. At the short-to-intermediate timescale that we can access using a stochastic-series-type numeric scheme, the propagation turns out to be distinctly non-diffusive with the proba- bility distribution featuring minima in both space and time due to quantum interference, yet the motion is not ballistic, except at the beginning. We discuss possible scenarios for long-term evolution that could be explored with an unprecedented degree of detail in experiments with single-atom resolved imaging.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**14.    Coherent dynamics of mixed Frenkel and Charge Transfer Excitons in Dinaphtho[2,3-b:2'3'-f]thieno[3,2-b]-thiophene Thin Films: The Importance of Hole Delocalization**  
Takatoshi Fujita, Sule Atahan-Evrenk, Nicolas P. D. Sawaya, Alan Aspuru-Guzik  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.05678  
<blockquote>
<p>
Charge transfer states in organic semiconductors play crucial roles in processes such as singlet fission and exciton dissociation at donor/acceptor interfaces. Recently, a time-resolved spectroscopy study of dinaphtho[2,3-b:2'3'-f]thieno[3,2-b]-thiophene (DNTT) thin films provided evidence for the formation of mixed Frenkel and charge-transfer excitons after the photoexcitation. Here we investigate optical properties and excitation dynamics of the DNTT thin films by combining ab initio calculations and a stochastic Schrodinger equation. Our theory predicts that the low-energy Frenkel exciton band consists of 8 to 47% CT character. The quantum dynamics simulations show coherent dynamics of Frenkel and CT states in 50 fs after the optical excitation. We demonstrate the role of charge delocalization and localization in the mixing of CT states with Frenkel excitons as well as the role of their decoherence.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**15.    Eigenfunction structure and scaling of two interacting particles in the one-dimensional Anderson model**  
Klaus M. Frahm  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.08257  
<blockquote>
<p>
The localization properties of eigenfunctions for two interacting particles in the one-dimensional Anderson model are studied for system sizes up to $N=5000$ sites corresponding to a Hilbert space of dimension $\approx 10^7$ using the Green function Arnoldi method. The eigenfunction structure is illustrated in position, momentum and energy representation, the latter corresponding to an expansion in non-interacting product eigenfunctions. Different types of localization lengths are computed for parameter ranges in system size, disorder and interaction strengths inaccessible until now. We confirm that one-parameter scaling theory can be successfully applied provided that the condition of $N$ being significantly larger than the one-particle localization length $L_1$ is verified. The enhancement effect of the two-particle localization length $L_2$ behaving as $L_2\sim L_1^2$ is clearly confirmed for a certain quite large interval of optimal interactions strengths. Further new results for the interaction dependence in a very large interval, an energy value outside the band center, and different interaction ranges are obtained.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

