---
layout: arxiv
title: 202016 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Quantum walks public key cryptographic system**  
C. Vlachou, J. Rodrigues, P. Mateus, N. Paunkovi?, A. Souto  
International Journal of Quantum Information, Vol. 13, No. 6 (2015) 1550050  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.01404  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum Cryptography is a rapidly developing field of research that benefits from the properties of Quantum Mechanics in performing cryptographic tasks. Quantum walks are a powerful model for quantum computation and very promising for quantum information processing. In this paper, we present a quantum public-key cryptographic system based on quantum walks. In particular, in the proposed protocol the public key is given by a quantum state generated by performing a quantum walk. We show that the protocol is secure and analyze the complexity of public-key generation and encryption/decryption procedures.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Superconducting quantum metamaterials as active lasing medium: Effects of disorder**  
Martin Koppenh?fer, Michael Marthaler, Gerd Sch?n  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1602.01367  
<blockquote>
<p>
A metamaterial formed by superconducting circuits or quantum dots can serve as active lasing medium when coupled to a microwave resonator. For these artificial atoms, in contrast to real atoms, variations in their parameters cannot be avoided. In this paper, we examine the influence of disorder on such a multi-atom lasing setup. We find that the lasing process evolves into a self-organized stationary state that is quite robust against disorder. The reason is that photons created by those atoms which are in or close to resonance with the resonator stimulate the emission also of more detuned atoms. Not only the number of photons grows with the number of atoms, but also the width of the resonance as function of the detuning. Similar properties are found for other types of disorder such as variations in the individual coupling. We present relations how the allowed disorder scales with the number of atoms and confirm it by a numerical analysis. We also provide estimates for the sample-to-sample variations to be expected for setups with moderate numbers of atoms.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

