---
layout: arxiv
title: 202016 Filtered arXiv Papers
---

**1.    Efficient simulation of sparse Markovian quantum dynamics**  
Andrew M. Childs, Tongyang Li  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.05543  
<blockquote>
<p>
Quantum algorithms for simulating Hamiltonian dynamics have been extensively developed, but there has been much less work on quantum algorithms for simulating the dynamics of open quantum systems. We give the first efficient quantum algorithms for simulating Markovian quantum dynamics generated by Lindbladians that are not necessarily local. We introduce two approaches to simulating sparse Lindbladians. First, we show how to simulate Lindbladians that act within small invariant subspaces using a quantum algorithm to implement sparse Stinespring isometries. Second, we develop a method for simulating sparse Lindblad operators by concatenating a sequence of short-time evolutions. We also show limitations on Lindbladian simulation by proving a no-fast-forwarding theorem for simulating sparse Lindbladians in a black-box model.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**2.    Quantum walks: the first detected passage time problem**  
Harel Friedman, David A. Kessler, Eli Barkai  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.05676  
<blockquote>
<p>
Even after decades of research the problem of first passage time statistics for quantum dynamics remains a challenging topic of fundamental and practical importance. Using a projective measurement approach, with a sampling time $\tau$, we obtain the statistics of first detection events for quantum dynamics on a lattice, with the detector located at the origin. A quantum renewal equation for a first detection wave function, in terms of which the first detection probability can be calculated, is derived. This formula gives the relation between first detection statistics and the solution of the corresponding Schr\"odinger equation in the absence of measurement. We demonstrate our results with tight binding quantum walk models. We examine a closed system, i.e. a ring, and reveal the intricate influence of the sampling time $\tau$ on the statistics of detection, discussing the quantum Zeno effect, half dark states, revivals and optimal detection. The initial condition modifies the statistics of a quantum walk on a finite ring in surprising ways. In some cases the average detection time is independent of the sampling time while in others the average exhibits multiple divergences as the sampling time is modified. For an unbounded one dimensional quantum walk the probability of first detection decays like $(\mbox{time})^{(-3)}$ with superimposed oscillations, with exceptional behavior when the sampling period $\tau$ times the tunnelling rate $\gamma$ is a multiple of $\pi/2$. The amplitude of the power law decay is suppressed as $\tau\to 0$ due to the Zeno effect. Our work presented here, is an extended version of Friedman et al. arXiv:1603.02046 [cond-mat.stat-mech], and it predicts rich physical behaviors compared with classical Brownian motion, for which the first passage probability density decays monotonically like $(\mbox{time})^{-3/2}$, as elucidated by Schr\"odinger in $1915$.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**3.    Localization Lifetime of a Many-Body System with Periodic Constructed Disorder**  
M. Schecter, M. Shapiro, M. I. Dykman  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.05713  
<blockquote>
<p>
We show that, in a many-body system, all particles can be strongly confined to the initially occupied sites for a time that scales as a high power of the ratio of the bandwidth of site energies to the hopping amplitude. Such time-domain formulation is complementary to the formulation of the many-body localization of all stationary states with a large localization length. The long localization lifetime is achieved by constructing a periodic sequence of site energies with a large period in a one-dimensional chain. The scaling of the localization lifetime is independent of the number of particles for a broad range of the coupling strength. The analytical results are confirmed by numerical calculations.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

**4.    Sensitivity of quantum walks to boundary of two-dimensional lattices: approaches from the CGMV method and topological phases**  
Takako Endo, Norio Konno, Hideaki Obuse, Etsuo Segawa  
http://www.arxiv.org/abs/1611.05794  
<blockquote>
<p>
In this paper, we treat quantum walks on $2$-dimensional lattice with the cutting edge at $x=0$ introduced by Asboth and Edge (2014) in order to study one-dimensional edge states originating from topological phases and to see a collateral evidence how a quantum walker reacts such a graph deformation making the boundary. First, we connect this model to the CMV matrix which provides the $5$-term recursion relation of the Laurent polynomial associated with spectral measure on the unit circle. Secondly, we obtain the dispersion relation of the energy of the quantum walk explicitly by using the spectral analysis of the CMV matrix. We confirm that the dispersion relation for edge states are consistent with the prediction from the topological phases originating from not only two-dimensional bulk states but also one-dimensional ones in a certain condition. Finally, we show how the edge states contribute the asymptotic behavior of the quantum walk through limit theorems of the finding probability. Conversely, we also propose a differential equation using this limit distribution whose solution is the underlying edge state.
</p>
</blockquote>

------

